                        User-Visible lbcd Changes

lbcd 3.5.0 (unreleased)

    Drop support for lbcd -s, to stop a running daemon, and lbcd -r, to
    restart a running daemon.  This sort of daemon management is best done
    via a system framework, whether init scripts, upstart, or systemd.

    lbcd no longer writes its PID file to /var/run/lbcd.pid by default.
    The -P option, specifying where to write a PID file, is still
    supported, but unless it is given, lbcd does not write out a PID file.

    lbcd supports a new -f option, which runs the daemon in the foreground
    (as preferred by modern init systems) but still logs to syslog, unlike
    the existing -d option which also moves logging to standard output and
    standard error.

    Implement lbcd -l, which now logs to syslog each incoming client
    request and its protocol version.

    lbcdclient has been rewritten.  The output format is now completely
    different and more human-readable.  The timeout and port are
    configurable on the command line, and the option parsing now supports
    long options.  The command no longer takes a list of multiple servers
    to query, and exits with an error message if it cannot reach a server
    within the timeout.  lbcdclient supports IPv6 if the IO::Socket::INET6
    Perl module is installed.

    lbcd now supports IPv6.  The bind address given with -b may be an IPv6
    address, and by default it listens to both IPv4 and IPv6 addresses on
    hosts that support IPv6.

    lbcd now considers a user to be on console if any user is logged in
    from an "address" that starts with ":0".  Modern Linux systems with a
    display manager will show console users this way rather than logins to
    tty1 or console.

    Add support for systemd.  If built on a system with systemd installed,
    lbcd will install (but not enable) systemd units to start lbcd via
    socket activation.  lbcd will also notify systemd when its
    initialization is complete if started by systemd with service
    notification enabled.  Distributors are encouraged to modify the
    provided lbcd.service file to set User and Group to a separate user
    and group created for that purpose, although this is not done in the
    default unit files due to the difficulty with creating users portably.

    Add support for upstart's expect stop daemon synchronization method.
    When starting lbcd with upstart, pass the new -Z option to lbcd, and
    it will raise SIGSTOP when ready to accept connections, signaling to
    upstart that the daemon has fully started.

    Fix source typo that prevented compilation on Mac OS X.  (It is
    probably obvious that the developer doesn't have access to Mac OS X
    systems to test compilation....)

lbcd 3.4.2 (2013-12-17)

    Support getutxent and use it in preference to getutent, falling back
    on the latter only if getutxent isn't available.  Hopefully fixes
    compilation problems on Mac OS X.

    Support FreeBSD (and Debian GNU/kFreeBSD) if /proc is mounted.

    Update to rra-c-util 4.12:

    * network_connect now resumes after being interrupted by a signal.
    * Correctly check the return status of snprintf.
    * Correctly handle formatting errors in asprintf functions.

    Update to C TAP Harness 2.3:

    * bail and sysbail now exit with status 255 to match Test::More.
    * Suppress lazy plans and test summaries if the test failed with bail.
    * Add warn_unused_result gcc attributes to relevant functions.

lbcd 3.4.1 (2013-03-28)

    If $sysconfdir/nolbcd (/usr/local/etc/nolbcd by default) exists, force
    the weight of the default service to the maximum regardless of what
    the normal weight calculation returned.  This allows a host to be
    effectively dropped out of a load-balanced pool by touching this file.

    Document the lbcd -t test mode and fix the output to treat the results
    as unsigned numbers instead of signed numbers.

    Stop rewriting maximum weights in the lbcdclient output to -1 and
    report the actual number that will be used by clients.

    Document lbcd handling of /etc/nologin.

    Update to rra-c-util 4.8:

    * Improve POD tests.
    * Cleanly passes clang --analyze.

    Update to C TAP Harness 2.1:

    * runtests now treats the command line as a list of tests by default.
    * The full test executable path can now be passed to runtests -o.
    * Improved harness output for tests with lazy plans.
    * Improved harness output to a terminal for some abort cases.
    * Flush harness output after each test even when not on a terminal.

lbcd 3.4.0 (2012-09-20)

    Add Mac OS X port from Clif Redding.  Tested with Darwin 8.10.1 and
    Mac OS X 10.4.10, but hopefully will work with other versions.

    Update the LDAP check to do something more reasonable.  The old LDAP
    plugin probably never worked, at least with OpenLDAP.  Thanks to
    Quanah Gibson-Mount for the fixes.

    Fix the HTTP check to correctly verify that the server returns a 20x
    or 30x status code.  Previously, any status code response would have
    accidentally been considered a success.

    Fix a possible memory overwrite and security issue if there are more
    than 512 unique users logged on to the system.

    Check for inet_aton in libresolv for older versions of Solaris.

    Dropped support for NeXTSTEP, ULTRIX, and SunOS.  It's unlikely that
    lbcd still compiled on those platforms and it's too much effort to
    support pre-ANSI systems that exist only in museums.

lbcd 3.3.0 (2006-10-06)

    Add the -S option, which says to return load and user information
    unmolested when replying to version two queries rather than setting
    all of the loads to the calculated weight of the first service and
    zeroing the user information.

    Fix user handling on Linux.  Due to an invalid utmp path, a logic
    error in caching user login results, and an incorrect path for the
    console, all the user numbers on Linux were always zero prior to this
    fix.

    Add considerably better documentation on what weight the default load
    service calculates, including its various adjustments based on the
    number of logged-in users.

    In lbcdclient, don't send a one-byte packet to the server before
    sending the real query.

lbcd 3.2.6 (2006-05-16)

    When building from a different build directory than the source
    directory, the makefile built and looked for the man pages in the
    wrong path.  Look for and build man pages in the source directory.

lbcd 3.2.5 (2006-04-10)

    Fixed a misuse of the third argument to waitpid that was causing use
    of a command to generate weights to fail on some platforms.

lbcd 3.2.4 (2006-03-17)

    Document lbcd's behavior on hosts with multiple addresses and the use
    of -b and running multiple instances of lbcd to ensure that replies
    go out from the right source address.  Unfortunately, the design of
    the Unix UDP API makes it more difficult than it's worth to try to
    reply to incoming packets with the source address of the interface on
    which they were received.

lbcd 3.2.3 (2005-02-24)

    Added the -b option to lbcd to bind to only the specified address
    instead of all available addresses.

lbcd 3.2.2 (2004-11-16)

    Documentation updates, including adding a README file and reformatting
    documentation to match other Stanford packages.  Added URL information
    to the manual pages.

lbcd 3.2.1 (2004-09)

    Fixed a long-standing bug in round-robin (-R) mode when responding to
    v2 requests.  The response packet was not being correctly changed on
    Linux and other little-endian systems.

    Set the 5 and 15 minute load to a constant value as well as the 1
    minute load when using round-robin, just in case.

lbcd 3.2.0 (2004-08)

    Added manual pages for both lbcd and lbcdclient.

    Changed the default PID file location for lbcd to /var/run/lbcd.pid,
    which is FHS-compliant and supported on most operating systems now.

    Added Debian build rules and Makefile support for building Debian
    packages, and cleaned up the configure and build system.

lbcd 3.1.2 (2003-07)

    Fixed a bug with va_end usage on systems where va_end is not a no-op
    and fixed some setpgrp portability issues.

    Added a make dist target to the Makefile.

lbcd 3.1.1 (2000-01)

    Ported to IRIX 6.5.  The IRIX support code underwent a general
    cleanup.

lbcd 3.1.0 (1998-08)

    Standardize on 32 bytes for protocol v3 service length and add
    protocol v3 extensions to the server.

    Ported to IRIX 6.x.

    Fix protocol v2 conversion handling for little-endian machines.

lbcd 3.0.1 (1998-01)

    Fix Solaris utmp gathering mechanism by checking the utmp entry type.

lbcd 3.0.0 (1998-01)

    First complete protocol v3 server.
